it's 1944. this guy
is joseph herman and he's up at 18 000
feet without a parachute just a few
seconds ago
he was piloting an airplane on a mission
to germany
normally pilots and crew wear parachutes
inside the plane
but joseph liked to be comfortable so he
took off that heavy parachute backpack
suddenly his plane was hit he ordered
all crew members to evacuate
and ran for his parachute but seconds
later the plane exploded
the explosion threw joseph out of the
plane and he found himself hurtling
around the night sky
without a parachute in a panic he began
to stare at the ground
looking for a safe place to land a river
lake or swimming pool wasn't an option
hitting water at high speed
is almost the same as hitting concrete
snow drifts are great if he could find
one deep enough
he'd have at least a semi-soft landing
but it's november
and there's no snow anywhere the best
option
aim for the woods tree branches and
bushes
might slow his fall enough so he could
survive hitting the ground
these thoughts took joseph some time and
now
he was at only six thousand feet that's
when
a miracle happened he smashed into
something
and just out of reflex grabbed onto it
at first
he thought it was a random bit of the
plane falling down to earth
but no it was someone's legs
it turned out to be a member of his crew
who had just opened his parachute
holding on to his new best friend for
life joseph had almost reached the
ground
both officers prepared for impact but
the parachute was only designed for one
person
with double the weight it couldn't drop
at a safe speed
even though joseph got a massive hit to
the chest
courtesy of his parachute partner he
still managed to stick the landing
he suffered several injuries but still
he survived
a fall from 18 thousand feet
but that's not even the record for a
free fall without a parachute
meet vesna volovich about fifty years
ago
she was a trainee flight attendant and
was like most days
serving passengers in the cabin the
plane was flying at over 33 000 feet
when it just broke apart vesna survived
the initial chaos
and began her free fall she immediately
lost consciousness
and had absolutely no memory of what she
was doing
as she sped towards the earth a few
minutes later
she touched down well smashed down
and she survived a local forester found
her among the wreckage of the plane
she suffered a ton of injuries but after
16 months
she made a full recovery she even wanted
to return to her job as a flight
attendant
she had no memory of the crash or the
fall
maybe she was saved by the trees in the
snow and a huge shout out
goes to the hero forest ranger who found
her and gave her life-saving first
aid in one of those classic coincidences
vesna wasn't even supposed to be on that
plane in the first place
the airline made a mistake and put our
survivor on the flight
instead of another girl with the same
name many people
said that the universe realized its
mistake and gave the girl
a second chance this man
is luke akins and he did one of the
craziest free jumps ever
with no parachute obviously so we're at
000 feet four people jump out of a plane
and only three of them have a parachute
the poor guy without a chute is our hero
the rest
are the crew they film luke's jump and
help him stay in the right direction
they have smoke flares attached to their
feet so luke can see them through the
clouds
now we're at 17 000 feet luke's speed
is now 150 miles per hour and his pulse
is almost three times his resting heart
rate
about halfway through a crew member
helps luke remove his oxygen mask
the higher the altitude the less oxygen
there is
so when luke left the plane he needed a
mask to stop him from passing out
but now our hero is breathing on his own
again
five thousand feet the other team
members open their parachutes
and luke is left all alone
he approaches the landing site it's a
giant net
the size of about an eighth of a soccer
field it's
stretched between four large cranes each
crane has special spotlights
to help luke find the perfect landing
spot on a net suspended
20 stories up from the ground luke's
right over his target and just before
landing
he flips over onto his back to land
safely
three two one touchdown
land down whatever you call it the crowd
goes wild
and luke gets some serious bragging
rights
a stunt like this takes nearly two years
of training and practice
luke akins had already skydived 18 000
times before
so on average a free fall lasts 2.5
minutes
math math math math math so luke's
spent 31 days in free fall
how about jumping from five times higher
than that
a freezing cold 128 000 feet
this thing is called a high altitude
balloon it's used to fly higher than
seven miles
up after about two hours this thing took
future record holder
felix baumgartner into the stratosphere
to jump from that high he needed a
special spacesuit
with an oxygen reserve and additional
heating
when the hatch opened felix needed
another 15 minutes to get his mind right
then all he had to do was take a simple
step
and he was off after 20 seconds
he had reached a monumental 435 miles
per hour
and 30 seconds later he reached his
maximum speed
of 843 miles per hour felix flew faster
than many supersonic airplanes
and even broke the sound barrier down on
the ground
a bunch of people even heard the
supersonic boom
just like the one you hear when planes
hit the speed of sound
it would have definitely stunned felix
but he was going so
fast the boom happened far above him
much more dangerous was the force on his
body
after about a minute of flight he
started spinning at warp speed
his body was experiencing more g-force
than astronauts taking off in a space
shuttle
if he had completely lost consciousness
the jump would have ended
way differently but after 13 seconds
the spinning stopped and he managed to
stabilize himself
after three and a half minutes he
started to slow down
when you get closer to the surface the
air gets thicker
so you fall slower four minutes and 16
seconds of free fall
felix released his parachute but it was
too soon
the problem was that his visor started
to fog up
because of some heating problems so he
didn't know
exactly how high he was just to be safe
he released his parachute a little early
he said he felt like he was floating in
water
not knowing which way was up nine
minutes later
he finally touched down on solid ground
he had just set several world records
highest jump and greatest distance and
speed
of a free fall plus he's the only person
to break the sound barrier
without using an engine
but his highest jump record was soon
broken
alan eustis jumped from nearly 136 000
feet
so sealed spacesuits and special
parachutes are a must
but what if you found yourself at 130
000 feet
without any equipment at all it would be
about 30 degrees outside
so you wouldn't exactly freeze but as
you drop down
you'd be dealing with around negative
70. a warm jacket might come in handy
but the real threat would be the lack of
oxygen if you want to stay alert
you just gotta have an oxygen mask say
you have a warm spacesuit and oxygen
what do you do now you need to get into
a position
that creates maximum air resistance
spread your arms and legs
point your chest down and tilt your head
back
now you have time to choose a good place
to land remember water
is not your friend look for snow or
woods
once you've chosen a spot you need to
prepare for impact
why not follow luke akin's example turn
over on your back
press your legs against your chest and
cover your head with your hands
it's probably still gonna hurt though